docs/tutorials/gcp-onboarding.mdx, before:

---
title: GCP Onboarding
---

This tutorial shows end-to-end onboarding for Discovery Engine ingestion.

## 1. Set Variables

```bash
export PROJECT_ID="your-project-id"
export LOCATION="eu"
export DATA_STORE_ID="your-datastore-id"
export BUCKET="your-bucket"
export CONNECTOR_ID="hr-employees"

if [ "${LOCATION}" = "global" ]; then
  export API_HOST="discoveryengine.googleapis.com"
else
  export API_HOST="${LOCATION}-discoveryengine.googleapis.com"
fi
```

## 2. Configure Auth and Quota

```bash
gcloud config set project "${PROJECT_ID}"
gcloud auth application-default login
gcloud auth application-default set-quota-project "${PROJECT_ID}"
```

## 3. Create Data Store

Use Discovery Engine API to create a target data store and verify it reaches `ACTIVE` state.

## 4. Grant Storage and Discovery Access

Grant the bridge service account and Discovery service agent access to the artifact bucket.

## 5. Run Connector and Verify Imports

```bash
gemini-sync-bridge run --connector connectors/hr-employees.yaml
```

Verify:

- Artifact files in `gs://<bucket>/connectors/<connector-id>/runs/<run-id>/`
- Imported documents in Discovery Engine

## 6. Operationalize

- Keep `GEMINI_INGESTION_DRY_RUN=false` only in controlled environments.
- Configure failure visibility in [Operate Runs](/docs/how-to/operate-runs).
- Track SLO baselines in [Reliability and SLOs](/docs/concepts/reliability-and-slos).

Commit message:

feat(docs): add comprehensive guide for connector-config repository setup and usage

docs/tutorials/gcp-onboarding.mdx, after:

---
title: GCP Onboarding
---

This tutorial shows end-to-end onboarding for Discovery Engine ingestion.

## 1. Set Variables

```bash
export PROJECT_ID="your-project-id"
export LOCATION="eu"
export DATA_STORE_ID="your-datastore-id"
export BUCKET="your-bucket"
export CONNECTOR_ID="hr-employees"

if [ "${LOCATION}" = "global" ]; then
  export API_HOST="discoveryengine.googleapis.com"
else
  export API_HOST="${LOCATION}-discoveryengine.googleapis.com"
fi
```

## 2. Configure Auth and Quota

```bash
gcloud config set project "${PROJECT_ID}"
gcloud auth application-default login
gcloud auth application-default set-quota-project "${PROJECT_ID}"
```

## 3. Create Data Store

Use Discovery Engine API to create a target data store and verify it reaches `ACTIVE` state.

## 4. Grant Storage and Discovery Access

Grant the bridge service account and Discovery service agent access to the artifact bucket.

## 5. Run Connector and Verify Imports

```bash
gemini-sync-bridge run --connector connectors/hr-employees.yaml
```

If your connector YAML lives in a separate connector-config repo, pass the absolute path instead:

```bash
gemini-sync-bridge run --connector /path/to/my-connectors/connectors/hr-employees.yaml
```

The `--connector` flag accepts any path to a single YAML file — the connector does not need to be inside the runtime repo. See [Connector Config Repository](/docs/how-to/connector-config-repo) for the full external repo setup guide.

Verify:

- Artifact files in `gs://<bucket>/connectors/<connector-id>/runs/<run-id>/`
- Imported documents in Discovery Engine

## 6. Operationalize

- Keep `GEMINI_INGESTION_DRY_RUN=false` only in controlled environments.
- Configure failure visibility in [Operate Runs](/docs/how-to/operate-runs).
- Track SLO baselines in [Reliability and SLOs](/docs/concepts/reliability-and-slos).
