docs/how-to/connector-config-repo.mdx, before:

---
title: Connector Config Repository
---

This guide covers the full setup and day-to-day use of a dedicated **connector-config repository** — a separate git repo that holds your connector YAML files, tests, and evals, keeping them independent from the `gemini-sync-bridge` runtime repo.

If you currently store connectors inside the runtime repo and want to move them out, see [Migrate Custom Connectors](/docs/how-to/migrate-custom-connectors) first, then return here for the ongoing workflow.

## Why a Separate Repo?

| Runtime repo (`gemini-sync`) | Connector-config repo (`my-connectors`) |
|---|---|
| Runtime code, tests, and docs | Connector YAML files only |
| Owned by platform team | Owned by each product/domain team |
| Versioned and released as a service | Versioned independently per connector |
| Contains only curated examples | Contains all environment-specific connectors |

This separation keeps environment credentials, connector schedules, and data store IDs out of the runtime codebase while allowing each team to own and evolve their connectors via pull requests.

## Recommended Directory Layout

```
my-connectors/
├── .agent/
│   └── tasks/
│       └── <connector-id>/       ← handoff artifacts per connector
│           ├── task.md
│           ├── changes.md
│           ├── risk_tier.md
│           ├── test_evidence.md
│           └── docs_evidence.md
├── connectors/
│   ├── hr-employees.yaml         ← one file per connector
│   └── process-catalog.yaml
├── evals/
│   ├── eval_registry.yaml
│   └── scenarios/
│       ├── hr-employees-contract.yaml
│       └── process-catalog-contract.yaml
├── scripts/
│   └── run_scenario_evals.py
├── tests/
│   └── test_connector_samples.py
└── pyproject.toml
```

`connectors/` is the only required directory. All other directories are part of the recommended governance structure that mirrors the runtime repo's EDD + TDD workflow.

## Setup

### 1. Install the runtime as a dependency

Your connector-config repo needs `gemini-sync-bridge` installed to run the validation scripts and tests. Add it to `pyproject.toml`:

```toml
[build-system]
requires = ["setuptools"]
build-backend = "setuptools.backends.legacy:build"

[project]
name = "my-connectors"
version = "0.1.0"
requires-python = ">=3.11"
dependencies = [
    "gemini-sync-bridge",
]

[project.optional-dependencies]
dev = [
    "pytest",
    "jsonschema",
    "pyyaml",
]

[tool.pytest.ini_options]
pythonpath = ["."]
testpaths = ["tests"]
```

Then install:

```bash
python -m venv .venv
source .venv/bin/activate   # Windows: .venv\Scripts\activate
pip install -e .[dev]
```

### 2. Copy the schema

The validator script in the runtime repo reads from `schemas/connector.schema.json`. The simplest approach is to run validation from the runtime repo, pointing it at your external connectors directory (see [Validation](#validation) below). If you need self-contained validation, copy or symlink the schema into your repo.

## Running a Connector

### Single connector run

```bash
gemini-sync-bridge run --connector /path/to/my-connectors/connectors/hr-employees.yaml
```

`--connector` requires a path to a **single YAML file**. Both absolute and relative paths (relative to your current working directory) are accepted.

On Windows, use forward slashes to avoid escape issues:

```bash
gemini-sync-bridge run --connector C:/dev/tools/gemini-sync-connectors/connectors/hr-employees.yaml
```

### Running multiple connectors

There is no multi-connector flag. Loop at the shell level:

```bash
# bash / macOS / Linux
for f in /path/to/my-connectors/connectors/*.yaml; do
  gemini-sync-bridge run --connector "$f"
done
```

```powershell
# PowerShell (Windows)
Get-ChildItem C:\dev\tools\gemini-sync-connectors\connectors\*.yaml | ForEach-Object {
    gemini-sync-bridge run --connector $_.FullName
}
```

### Pointing Ops UI and Studio at your connectors

`CONNECTORS_DIR` controls which directory the API server (`gemini-sync-bridge serve`) scans for connectors to display in the Ops UI and Studio. Set it before starting the server:

```bash
export CONNECTORS_DIR=/path/to/my-connectors/connectors
gemini-sync-bridge serve --host 0.0.0.0 --port 8080
```

On Windows in a `.env` file, use forward slashes:

```
CONNECTORS_DIR=C:/dev/tools/gemini-sync-connectors/connectors
```

Important behaviour of `CONNECTORS_DIR`:

- Scans the **top-level only** — subdirectories are not traversed.
- Accepts only `.yaml` files at that level.
- Only one directory is supported (no colon-separated list).
- Default when unset: `connectors/` relative to the process working directory.
- **Only affects `serve`** (Ops UI + Studio discovery). The `run` command always requires an explicit `--connector` path regardless of `CONNECTORS_DIR`.

## `source.path` for `file_pull` Connectors

For `file_pull` connectors, `source.path` is resolved relative to the **working directory of the process at the time you run `gemini-sync-bridge`** — not relative to the connector YAML file itself.

Example: if you run `gemini-sync-bridge` from `C:\dev\tools\gemini-sync` and your connector YAML contains:

```yaml
source:
  path: ./runtime/sources/signavio
```

The resolved path will be `C:\dev\tools\gemini-sync\runtime\sources\signavio`, regardless of where the YAML file lives.

**Recommendation:** Use absolute paths in `source.path` when the connector YAML is stored in an external repo:

```yaml
source:
  type: file
  path: C:/data/signavio-exports
  glob: "*.csv"
  format: csv
```

This makes the connector portable across invocation contexts and avoids silent resolution mismatches.

## Validation

Run the runtime repo's schema validator against your external connectors directory using the `--connectors` flag:

```bash
# From the runtime repo root
python scripts/validate_connectors.py --connectors /path/to/my-connectors/connectors
```

Full preflight check before any PR:

```bash
python scripts/validate_connectors.py --connectors /path/to/my-connectors/connectors
pytest /path/to/my-connectors/tests/
```

## Agent Task Artifacts

For every connector PR, place the required handoff artifacts under `.agent/tasks/<connector-id>/` in your connector-config repo:

```
.agent/tasks/hr-employees/
├── task.md
├── changes.md
├── risk_tier.md
├── test_evidence.md
└── docs_evidence.md
```

Use the templates from the runtime repo's `.agent/templates/` as the starting point. Risk tier for connector YAML changes is **Tier 1** by default (see `.agent/risk_policy.yaml` in the runtime repo).

## Related

- [Connector Authoring](/docs/how-to/connector-authoring) — field-by-field YAML authoring guide
- [Migrate Custom Connectors](/docs/how-to/migrate-custom-connectors) — moving connectors out of the runtime repo
- [File Pull](/docs/how-to/connectors/file-pull) — `file_pull` mode reference including `source.path` behaviour
- [Connector Fields](/docs/reference/connector-fields) — full field reference table
- [Connector Model](/docs/concepts/connector-model) — conceptual overview of the storage model

Commit message:

feat: Rename project from Gemini Sync Bridge to IngestRelay
- Introduced new Helm chart templates for cronjobs, deployments, services, and secrets.
- Updated values.yaml to reflect new image repository and environment variables.
- Changed Kubernetes namespace and database names in kestra-postgres.yaml.
- Updated documentation and references in llm.txt, pyproject.toml, and risk_tier.md.
- Modified JSON schemas to reflect new project identity.
- Updated tests to ensure compatibility with new project name and structure.
- Adjusted Docusaurus configuration and website content to reflect the new branding.

docs/how-to/connector-config-repo.mdx, after:

---
title: Connector Config Repository
---

This guide covers the full setup and day-to-day use of a dedicated **connector-config repository** — a separate git repo that holds your connector YAML files, tests, and evals, keeping them independent from the `ingest-relay` runtime repo.

If you currently store connectors inside the runtime repo and want to move them out, see [Migrate Custom Connectors](/docs/how-to/migrate-custom-connectors) first, then return here for the ongoing workflow.

## Why a Separate Repo?

| Runtime repo (`ingest-relay`) | Connector-config repo (`my-connectors`) |
|---|---|
| Runtime code, tests, and docs | Connector YAML files only |
| Owned by platform team | Owned by each product/domain team |
| Versioned and released as a service | Versioned independently per connector |
| Contains only curated examples | Contains all environment-specific connectors |

This separation keeps environment credentials, connector schedules, and data store IDs out of the runtime codebase while allowing each team to own and evolve their connectors via pull requests.

## Recommended Directory Layout

```
my-connectors/
├── .agent/
│   └── tasks/
│       └── <connector-id>/       ← handoff artifacts per connector
│           ├── task.md
│           ├── changes.md
│           ├── risk_tier.md
│           ├── test_evidence.md
│           └── docs_evidence.md
├── connectors/
│   ├── hr-employees.yaml         ← one file per connector
│   └── process-catalog.yaml
├── evals/
│   ├── eval_registry.yaml
│   └── scenarios/
│       ├── hr-employees-contract.yaml
│       └── process-catalog-contract.yaml
├── scripts/
│   └── run_scenario_evals.py
├── tests/
│   └── test_connector_samples.py
└── pyproject.toml
```

`connectors/` is the only required directory. All other directories are part of the recommended governance structure that mirrors the runtime repo's EDD + TDD workflow.

## Setup

### 1. Install the runtime as a dependency

Your connector-config repo needs `ingest-relay` installed to run the validation scripts and tests. Add it to `pyproject.toml`:

```toml
[build-system]
requires = ["setuptools"]
build-backend = "setuptools.backends.legacy:build"

[project]
name = "my-connectors"
version = "0.1.0"
requires-python = ">=3.11"
dependencies = [
    "ingest-relay",
]

[project.optional-dependencies]
dev = [
    "pytest",
    "jsonschema",
    "pyyaml",
]

[tool.pytest.ini_options]
pythonpath = ["."]
testpaths = ["tests"]
```

Then install:

```bash
python -m venv .venv
source .venv/bin/activate   # Windows: .venv\Scripts\activate
pip install -e .[dev]
```

### 2. Copy the schema

The validator script in the runtime repo reads from `schemas/connector.schema.json`. The simplest approach is to run validation from the runtime repo, pointing it at your external connectors directory (see [Validation](#validation) below). If you need self-contained validation, copy or symlink the schema into your repo.

## Running a Connector

### Single connector run

```bash
ingest-relay run --connector /path/to/my-connectors/connectors/hr-employees.yaml
```

`--connector` requires a path to a **single YAML file**. Both absolute and relative paths (relative to your current working directory) are accepted.

On Windows, use forward slashes to avoid escape issues:

```bash
ingest-relay run --connector C:/dev/tools/ingest-relay-connectors/connectors/hr-employees.yaml
```

### Running multiple connectors

There is no multi-connector flag. Loop at the shell level:

```bash
# bash / macOS / Linux
for f in /path/to/my-connectors/connectors/*.yaml; do
  ingest-relay run --connector "$f"
done
```

```powershell
# PowerShell (Windows)
Get-ChildItem C:\dev\tools\ingest-relay-connectors\connectors\*.yaml | ForEach-Object {
    ingest-relay run --connector $_.FullName
}
```

### Pointing Ops UI and Studio at your connectors

`CONNECTORS_DIR` controls which directory the API server (`ingest-relay serve`) scans for connectors to display in the Ops UI and Studio. Set it before starting the server:

```bash
export CONNECTORS_DIR=/path/to/my-connectors/connectors
ingest-relay serve --host 0.0.0.0 --port 8080
```

On Windows in a `.env` file, use forward slashes:

```
CONNECTORS_DIR=C:/dev/tools/ingest-relay-connectors/connectors
```

Important behaviour of `CONNECTORS_DIR`:

- Scans the **top-level only** — subdirectories are not traversed.
- Accepts only `.yaml` files at that level.
- Only one directory is supported (no colon-separated list).
- Default when unset: `connectors/` relative to the process working directory.
- **Only affects `serve`** (Ops UI + Studio discovery). The `run` command always requires an explicit `--connector` path regardless of `CONNECTORS_DIR`.

## `source.path` for `file_pull` Connectors

For `file_pull` connectors, `source.path` is resolved relative to the **working directory of the process at the time you run `ingest-relay`** — not relative to the connector YAML file itself.

Example: if you run `ingest-relay` from `C:\dev\tools\ingest-relay` and your connector YAML contains:

```yaml
source:
  path: ./runtime/sources/signavio
```

The resolved path will be `C:\dev\tools\ingest-relay\runtime\sources\signavio`, regardless of where the YAML file lives.

**Recommendation:** Use absolute paths in `source.path` when the connector YAML is stored in an external repo:

```yaml
source:
  type: file
  path: C:/data/signavio-exports
  glob: "*.csv"
  format: csv
```

This makes the connector portable across invocation contexts and avoids silent resolution mismatches.

## Validation

Run the runtime repo's schema validator against your external connectors directory using the `--connectors` flag:

```bash
# From the runtime repo root
python scripts/validate_connectors.py --connectors /path/to/my-connectors/connectors
```

Full preflight check before any PR:

```bash
python scripts/validate_connectors.py --connectors /path/to/my-connectors/connectors
pytest /path/to/my-connectors/tests/
```

## Agent Task Artifacts

For every connector PR, place the required handoff artifacts under `.agent/tasks/<connector-id>/` in your connector-config repo:

```
.agent/tasks/hr-employees/
├── task.md
├── changes.md
├── risk_tier.md
├── test_evidence.md
└── docs_evidence.md
```

Use the templates from the runtime repo's `.agent/templates/` as the starting point. Risk tier for connector YAML changes is **Tier 1** by default (see `.agent/risk_policy.yaml` in the runtime repo).

## Related

- [Connector Authoring](/docs/how-to/connector-authoring) — field-by-field YAML authoring guide
- [Migrate Custom Connectors](/docs/how-to/migrate-custom-connectors) — moving connectors out of the runtime repo
- [File Pull](/docs/how-to/connectors/file-pull) — `file_pull` mode reference including `source.path` behaviour
- [Connector Fields](/docs/reference/connector-fields) — full field reference table
- [Connector Model](/docs/concepts/connector-model) — conceptual overview of the storage model
